in this video let us learn the operations of the
DisJoint set
It has three main operations
The first one is union which is used to connect
Or merge two different sets
The second one is find which is used to find
out which set a particular element belongs to and the
last one is isConnected which is used to check
whether two elements are connected to each other
Let us take a sample set of 10 elements and
performed these operations here we have 10 elements from 0
to 9 and
Consider each element as a unique subset
Now let us perform the union of elements
12 Union means we need to connect these two sets
let us connect one and two and it will become
a new subset
And look something like this let us perform another union
operation on elements 34
So just connect the elements three and four and it
will look like this
Let us perform another union operation on elements four and
seven
So just connect the elements four and seven
And since four is already connected with three it will
look like this
So now three four seven will become the new subset
here
One thing to node is
three and seven
are connected indirectly three iss connected to four and four is
connected to seven
Hence three is indirectly connected with elements
Seven
Now let us perform another union operation on elements 38
So connect eight with three and it will become like
this and we have performed union operations
And now we have six different subsets
The first one is subset with element zero
Then the second one is with elements one and two
the next one with elements 348 and seven and the
next with Element five
The next with elements six and the final subset has
element nine
Now let us learn about find operation
The find operation is used to find out which set
a particular element belongs to
In other words the find operation will return the parent
node of the set to which this given element belongs
for example find of zero will be zero because the
element zero is not connected with any element
The element zero itself act as the root node so find
of zero will be zero and what will be find
of two It will be one because element 2 belongs to
the set 12
And here the root element is one so find of
two is one and what will be find of seven
It will be three because elements seven belonged to the
set
3487 and the root element here
is three
So find of seven is three
And that's it the find operation will return the root
node of given element
Next
Let us learn the isConnected operation isConnected
Operation is used to check whether two elements are connected
or not
So how can we say two elements are connected to
each other It's very simple
When both the element has the same parent then they
are connected to each other
for example isConnected of zero and two will be
false
Because the parent of zero is zero and parent of
two is one
They're different
So we can say that element zero and two are
not connected
We can use the find operation to find the parent
of each node
So what will be is connected of seven and eight
It will be true because the parent of seven is three
and parent of eight is also three they are the same
so we can say elements seven and eight are connected
That's it this is how we can use the
isConnected operation to check whether two elements are connected to
each other or not
Now let us have a quick summary
The union operation is used to connect a merge two
different sets find operation is used to get the parent
of the given element
In other words it is used to find out which set
a particular element belongs to
And finally the isConnected operation is used to check
whether two elements are connected or not so that's all for
this video
And in this video we have learned all three operations
of disjoint set with graphical representation
In the next video we will learn how to represent
disjoint set in an array and also learn how to implement disjoint set.